Company Management Documentation (#687)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins-b2b/company-management/functions.mdx

| [`updateCompanyStructure`](#updatecompanystructure) | Moves a structure node under a new parent in the company structure tree. |
| [`updateCompanyTeam`](#updatecompanyteam) | Updates a company team's name and/or description. |
| [`updateCompanyUser`](#updatecompanyuser) | Updates company user fields such as name, email, telephone, role, and status. |
| [`updateCompanyUserStatus`](#updatecompanyuserstatus) | Updates a company user's status between Active and Inactive with automatic base64 encoding. |
| [`validateCompanyEmail`](#validatecompanyemail) | Validates if a company email is available. |

</TableWrapper>

## acceptCompanyInvitation

Accepts a company invitation using the invitation code and user details from an email link.

```ts
const acceptCompanyInvitation = async (
  input: AcceptCompanyInvitationInput
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `input` | `AcceptCompanyInvitationInput` | Yes | Input parameters for the operation. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## allowCompanyRegistration

> Return whether the backend allows company self-registration per store configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns whether the backend allows company self-registration per store configuration.
```

```ts
const allowCompanyRegistration = async (): Promise<boolean>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `boolean`.

## checkCompanyCreditEnabled

Checks whether the Company Credit functionality ("Payment on Account") is enabled for the logged-in customer's company.

```ts
const checkCompanyCreditEnabled = async (): Promise<CheckCompanyCreditEnabledResponse>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns [`CheckCompanyCreditEnabledResponse`](#checkcompanycreditenabledresponse).

## companyEnabled

> Return whether the Company feature is enabled in store configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns whether the Company feature is enabled in store configuration.
```

    'Magento_Company::view',
    'Magento_Sales::all',
    'Magento_Sales::place_order'
  ]
});

console.log(`Created role: ${newRole.name} (ID: ${newRole.id})`);
```

---

## createCompanyTeam

Creates a new company team under an optional target structure node.

```ts
const createCompanyTeam = async (
  input: CreateCompanyTeamInput
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `input` | `CreateCompanyTeamInput` | Yes | Input parameters for the operation. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## createCompanyUser

Creates a new company user and optionally places them under a target structure node.

```ts
const createCompanyUser = async (
  input: CreateCompanyUserInput
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `input` | `CreateCompanyUserInput` | Yes | Input parameters for the operation. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## deleteCompanyRole

Permanently deletes a company role.

⚠️ **IMPORTANT RESTRICTIONS:**

> - Cannot delete roles with assigned users - reassign users first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cannot delete roles with assigned users. You must eassign users first
```

> - Cannot delete default system roles (e.g., "Default User")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cannot delete default system roles, such as "Default User"
```

- This operation cannot be undone
- Role configuration and permission settings are permanently lost

**Permissions Required:**
- `Magento_Company::roles_edit` - User must have role management permission

```typescript
function deleteCompanyRole(variables: DeleteCompanyRoleVariables): Promise<boolean>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `variables` | `DeleteCompanyRoleVariables` | Yes | Delete operation parameters containing the role ID. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

> Returns `boolean` - `true` if deletion succeeded, `false` if failed (e.g., role has users).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns `boolean` - `true` if deletion succeeded, `false` if it failed (for example, the role has users).
```

```ts
const deleteCompanyTeam = async (
  id: string
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0,1]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `id` | `string` | Yes | The unique identifier for the company team (structure node) to delete. This removes the team and may reassign team members depending on your company's configuration. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## deleteCompanyUser

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: This function **unassigns the user from the company** and should **NOT** be used for removing users from the Company Structure tree.

```ts
const deleteCompanyUser = async (
  params: DeleteCompanyUserParams
): Promise<DeleteCompanyUserResponse>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `params` | `DeleteCompanyUserParams` | Yes | An object of type \`DeleteCompanyUserParams\` containing the user ID to delete and any additional parameters required for user deletion. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns [`DeleteCompanyUserResponse`](#deletecompanyuserresponse).

## fetchUserPermissions

> The `fetchUserPermissions` API function retrieves the current user's role permissions and returns both the flattened permission IDs and the raw role response. This function is used internally by other API functions to determine what data the user can access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves the current user's role permissions and returns both the flattened permission IDs and the raw role response. This function is used internally by other API functions to determine what data the user can access.
```

```ts
const fetchUserPermissions = async (): Promise<any>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## getCompany

Retrieves complete information about the current company including name, structure, settings, and metadata. Returns the full company profile for the authenticated user's company context.

```ts
const getCompany = async (): Promise<any>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns a Promise that resolves to a `CompanyModel` object containing comprehensive company details.

## getCompanyAclResources

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Retrieves the available ACL (Access Control List) resources for company role permissions.

```

```ts
const getCompanyAclResources = async (): Promise<CompanyAclResourceModel[]>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns an array of [`CompanyAclResourceModel`](#companyaclresourcemodel) objects.

## getCompanyCredit

Retrieves the company's credit information including available credit, credit limit, outstanding balance, and currency. This is used to display company credit status and validate purchase limits.

```ts
const getCompanyCredit = async (): Promise<CompanyCreditInfo | null>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns [`CompanyCreditInfo`](#companycreditinfo) or `null`.

## getCompanyCreditHistory

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Retrieves the company's credit transaction history with pagination support.

```

}>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

```ts
Promise<{
  availableCountries: Country[] | [];
  countriesWithRequiredRegion: string[];
  optionalZipCountries: string[];
}>
```

See [`Country`](#country).

## getCustomerCompany

Fetches simplified customer company information for display on the customer account information page. This is a lightweight API that only returns essential company details without requiring full company management permissions.

```ts
const getCustomerCompany = async (): Promise<any>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## getStoreConfig

Retrieves store configuration settings relevant to company management.

```ts
const getStoreConfig = async (): Promise<StoreConfigModel>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns [`StoreConfigModel`](#storeconfigmodel).

## initialize

Initializes the Company drop-in with optional language definitions and data model metadata.

```ts
const initialize = async (
  config: CompanyDropinConfig = {}
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0,1]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|

> | `config` | `CompanyDropinConfig` | No | An optional configuration object of type \`CompanyDropinConfig\` containing initialization settings such as langDefinitions for internationalization. If omitted, default configuration is used. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `config` | `CompanyDropinConfig` | No | An optional configuration object of type `CompanyDropinConfig` containing initialization settings such as `langDefinitions` for internationalization. If omitted, the default configuration is used. |
```

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## isCompanyAdmin

> Check if the current authenticated customer is a company administrator in any company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checks if the current authenticated customer is a company administrator in any company.
```

### Returns

Returns `boolean`.

## isCompanyRoleNameAvailable

Validates whether a role name is available for use (not already taken).

Used for real-time validation during role creation and editing to prevent duplicate role names within a company. Role names are case-sensitive.

<Aside type="note">
Role names must be unique within a company. Different companies can have roles with the same name.
</Aside>

```typescript
function isCompanyRoleNameAvailable(variables: IsCompanyRoleNameAvailableVariables): Promise<boolean>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `variables` | `IsCompanyRoleNameAvailableVariables` | Yes | Validation parameters containing the role name to check. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `boolean` - `true` if name is available, `false` if already in use.

### Example

```typescript
const isAvailable = await isCompanyRoleNameAvailable({ 
  name: 'Sales Manager' 
});

if (isAvailable) {
  console.log('Name is available - can proceed with creation');
} else {
  console.error('Name already exists - choose a different name');
}
```

---

## isCompanyUser

> Check if the current authenticated customer belongs to any company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checks if the current authenticated customer belongs to any company.
```

```ts
const isCompanyUser = async (): Promise<boolean>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `boolean`.

## isCompanyUserEmailAvailable

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Checks if an email address is available for a new company user.

```

```ts
const isCompanyUserEmailAvailable = async (
  email: string
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0,1]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `email` | `string` | Yes | The email address. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## updateCompany

Updates company profile information with permission-aware field filtering.

This function dynamically builds the GraphQL mutation based on user permissions:
- Only requests fields the user can view in the response
- Only sends fields the user can edit in the mutation

**Permissions Required:**
- `Magento_Company::edit_account` - To update name, email, legal name, VAT/Tax ID, Reseller ID
- `Magento_Company::edit_address` - To update legal address fields

> **Important:** The dropin UI gates which fields are editable. If neither permission is granted, the submit button is disabled and this function should not be called.

Reviewer: Change to Aside

|---|---|---|---|
| `input` | `CompanyRoleUpdateInputModel` | Yes | Role update data including ID, new name, and/or new permission IDs. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `CompanyRoleModel` - The updated role with complete details.

### Example

```typescript
const updatedRole = await updateCompanyRole({
  id: 'cm9sZS8xMjM=',
  name: 'Senior Sales Manager',
  permissions: [
    'Magento_Company::index',
    'Magento_Company::view',
    'Magento_Company::edit_account',
    'Magento_Sales::all',
    'Magento_Sales::place_order',
    'Magento_Sales::view_orders'
  ]
});

console.log(`Updated role: ${updatedRole.name}`);
```

---

## updateCompanyStructure

Moves a structure node under a new parent in the company structure tree.

```ts
const updateCompanyStructure = async (
  input: UpdateCompanyStructureInput
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `input` | `UpdateCompanyStructureInput` | Yes | Input parameters for the operation. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## updateCompanyTeam

> Updates a company team's name `and/or` description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates a company team's name and description.
```

```ts
const updateCompanyTeam = async (
  input: UpdateCompanyTeamInput
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `input` | `UpdateCompanyTeamInput` | Yes | Input parameters for the operation. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## updateCompanyUser

Updates company user fields such as name, email, telephone, role, and status.

```ts
const updateCompanyUser = async (
  input: UpdateCompanyUserInput
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `input` | `UpdateCompanyUserInput` | Yes | Input parameters for the operation. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

## updateCompanyUserStatus

Updates a company user's status between Active and Inactive with automatic base64 encoding.

```ts
const updateCompanyUserStatus = async (
  params: UpdateCompanyUserStatusParams
): Promise<UpdateCompanyUserStatusResponse>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|

> | `params` | `UpdateCompanyUserStatusParams` | Yes | An object of type \`UpdateCompanyUserStatusParams\` containing the user ID and the new status value (active, inactive). Used to enable or disable user access to company resources. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `params` | `UpdateCompanyUserStatusParams` | Yes | An object of type `UpdateCompanyUserStatusParams` containing the user ID and the new status value (active, inactive). Used to enable or disable user access to company resources. |
```
